README.md, before:

# Multi-Step Form Application

This is a multi-step form application built with React, Vite, Tailwind CSS, and React Router. It demonstrates complex state management using Context API, routing between steps, form validation, and dynamic data handling.
---

### Folder Structure

multi-step-form
├── src
│   ├── components
│   │   ├── ProgressBar.jsx
│   │   ├── Step1.jsx
│   │   ├── Step2.jsx
│   │   ├── Step3.jsx
│   ├── context
│   │   └── FormContext.jsx
│   ├── routes
│   │   └── AppRoutes.jsx
│   ├── styles
│   │   └── index.css
│   ├── App.jsx
│   └── main.jsx
├── public
│   └── index.html
├── .gitignore
├── package.json
└── README.md

### State Management
The application uses the **Context API** to manage shared state across steps. The `FormContext` provides a global `formData` object and an `updateFormData` function to update the state dynamically.
This approach was chosen for simplicity and avoids the overhead of Redux for a small-scale application.

### Routing
Routing is handled by **React Router**, with each step mapped to a specific route:
- `/step1`: Collects basic user information.
- `/step2`: Collects additional information based on user choices.
- `/step3`: Displays a summary of the form data for review and submission.

---

## Implementation Details

### Why Context API?
- **Simplicity:** The Context API is a lightweight solution that avoids the complexity of Redux for this small application.
- **Trade-offs:** While Context API is sufficient for this use case, it may not scale well for larger applications with more complex state logic.

### Interesting Decisions and Trade-offs
1. **Dynamic Preferences:** Preferences in Step 2 are rendered dynamically based on the gender selected in Step 1. This required resetting preferences whenever the gender changes.
2. **Form Validation:** Added real-time email validation in Step 1 to enhance UX. This ensures the user cannot proceed with an invalid email.
3. **Progress Bar:** A progress bar visually indicates the user's position in the multi-step flow, improving navigation clarity.

### Extra Features
- **Dynamic Data Handling:** Gender-specific preferences dynamically adjust based on the user’s choice.
- **Validation:** Ensures all fields are correctly filled before proceeding to the next step.
- **Responsive Design:** Fully responsive design using Tailwind CSS.

---

### Why LocalStorage?
localStorage persists data even after the browser is closed, so users can continue where they left off.

---

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/multi-step-form.git
   cd multi-step-form
   npm install
   npm run dev

Ahmed Majid Ahmed

Commit message:

Adding Session Storage, adding another fields, update styles

README.md, after:

# Multi-Step Form Application

This is a multi-step form application built with React, Vite, Tailwind CSS, and React Router. It demonstrates complex state management using Context API, routing between steps, form validation, and dynamic data handling.
---

### Folder Structure

multi-step-form
├── src
│   ├── components
│   │   ├── ProgressBar.jsx
│   │   ├── Step1.jsx
│   │   ├── Step2.jsx
│   │   ├── Step3.jsx
│   ├── context
│   │   └── FormContext.jsx
│   ├── routes
│   │   └── AppRoutes.jsx
│   ├── styles
│   │   └── index.css
│   ├── App.jsx
│   └── main.jsx
├── public
│   └── index.html
├── .gitignore
├── package.json
└── README.md

### State Management
The application uses the **Context API** to manage shared state across steps. The `FormContext` provides a global `formData` object and an `updateFormData` function to update the state dynamically.
This approach was chosen for simplicity and avoids the overhead of Redux for a small-scale application.

### Routing
Routing is handled by **React Router**, with each step mapped to a specific route:
- `/step1`: Collects basic user information.
- `/step2`: Collects additional information based on user choices.
- `/step3`: Displays a summary of the form data for review and submission.

---

## Implementation Details

### Why Context API?
- **Simplicity:** The Context API is a lightweight solution that avoids the complexity of Redux for this small application.
- **Trade-offs:** While Context API is sufficient for this use case, it may not scale well for larger applications with more complex state logic.

### Interesting Decisions and Trade-offs
1. **Dynamic Preferences:** Preferences in Step 2 are rendered dynamically based on the gender selected in Step 1. This required resetting preferences whenever the gender changes.
2. **Form Validation:** Added real-time email validation in Step 1 to enhance UX. This ensures the user cannot proceed with an invalid email.
3. **Progress Bar:** A progress bar visually indicates the user's position in the multi-step flow, improving navigation clarity.

### Extra Features
- **Dynamic Data Handling:** Gender-specific preferences dynamically adjust based on the user’s choice.
- **Validation:** Ensures all fields are correctly filled before proceeding to the next step.
- **Responsive Design:** Fully responsive design using Tailwind CSS.

---

### Why SessionStorage?
SessionStorage persists data only for the duration of the browser session. This ensures that user data is retained during navigation or page reloads within the same session but is cleared once the browser tab is closed.

---

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/multi-step-form.git
   cd multi-step-form
   npm install
   npm run dev

Ahmed Majid Ahmed
